Curriculum Vitae 
Claudia Carroll 
Washington University in St. Louis | claudiac@wustl.edu 

Research Interests 
Digital Humanities; Cognitive Narratology; Realism; Narrative Theory; Nineteenth-Century Novel

Employment 
2023-Present  	Postdoctoral Research Fellow, Transdisciplinary Institute in Applied Data Science 
(TRIADS), Washington University in St. Louis 
2024-Present 	Lecturer, Interdisciplinary Program in the Humanities, Washington University in St. Louis 

Education 
2023     Ph.D. in English Literature, University of Notre Dame 
 	Dissertation Title: “Why Characters Seem Real: The Role of Behavior Descriptions in the 
 	Nineteenth-Century Novel” 
 	Committee: Yasmin Solomonescu (Chair), Ted Underwood (University of Illinois, 
 	Urbana-Champaign), Elaine Auyoung (University of Minnesota), Joseph  Rosenberg 
 
2015 	B.A. in English Literature and History, First Class Honors, Trinity College Dublin 
  	Including third year abroad in the AIKOM Program, University of Tokyo  

Publications 
Peer-Reviewed Journal Articles
“Using LLM-generated synthetic literary text to study cultural discourse around literary style.” With Gabi Kirilloff. Proposal accepted by the Harvard Data Science Review. Currently finalizing for full submission by February 2025.

“Interior and Exterior Character Representations in the Realist Novel: Measuring Literary Descriptions as Proxies for Reader Social Cognition.” Under Review at Digital Scholarship in the Humanities.

Matt Erlin, Doug Knox, Sadahisa Watanabe, Claudia Carroll, Jey Sushil Jah, and Tumaini Ussiri. “Geotopes: Postcolonial Literature and the Global Marketplace” Journal of Cultural Analytics (Accepted, Forthcoming)

“Dangerous Fictions: Cognitive Biases and Austen’s Pride and Prejudice.” Poetics Today (Accepted, Forthcoming)

“Taste in North and South Reconsidered: A Case for Attention to Downward and Lateral Class  Mobility in the Victorian Novel.” Journal of Victorian Culture 27:4 (2022): 656–669. 

Essay Collections and Book Chapters

“Towards an AI Narratology: The Possibilities of LLM Classification for the Quantification of Abstract Narrative Concepts.” The Routledge Handbook of AI and Literature, ed. Genevieve Liveley and Will Slocombe. London: Routledge, 2025.

Works in Progress 
Why Characters Feel Real: A Quantitative Study of Behavior Descriptions in the Nineteenth-Century Novel. Monograph in progress
Fellowships, Awards and Grants 
External Grants
2024	NEH Digital Advancements Level I Grant for “Using LLM-generated synthetic literary text to study cultural discourse around literary style.” Co-PI with Gabi Kiriloff. $58,698. Under Review.
Competitive Fellowships 
2022  	Dominica and Frank Annese Dissertation Completion Fellowship, Nanovic Institute for European Studies, University of Notre Dame 
2021  	Notre Dame Institute for Advanced Study Distinguished Graduate Fellowship 
2017  	Notebaert Premier Fellowship, University of Notre Dame 

Prizes 
2023 	Center for Research Computing Award for Computational Sciences and Visualization, University of Notre Dame 
2022  	Alan Nadel Prize for Best Graduate Student Paper, International Society for the Study of Narrative conference, Chichester UK 
 
Internal Research and Travel Grants 
2022  	Graduate School Professional Development Award, University of Notre Dame 
2021  	International Society for the Study of Narrative Graduate Student Travel Award 
2019  	English Department Conference Funding Award, University of Notre Dame 
2019  	Graduate Students Union Conference Presentation Grant, University of Notre Dame 
2018  	Keough-Naughton Institute Summer Funding Award, University of Notre Dame 
2018  	Keough-Naughton Institute Conference Travel Award, University of Notre Dame 
 
Grants for Conference and Seminar Organization 
2020  	Navari Center for Digital Scholarship Event Grant, University of Notre Dame 
2020  	Gradlife Event Grants, University of Notre Dame 
2020  	GSU Student Activities Funding, University of Notre Dame 

Presentations and Talks 
Conference Presentations 
 
2025	“Stylometric Analysis of AI-Generated Victorian Novels,” invited panelist for “Victorian AI,” North American Victorian Studies Association, Washington DC (under review)
2025	“LLM-Generated Synthetic Corpora in Literary Studies,” Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations, Lisbon Portugal (under review)
2025	“AI Classification and Narrative Theory,” Intenational Society for the Study of Narrative, Miami
FL (scheduled)
2025	“Interdisciplinary Opportunities in Data Science and Narrative Theory,” invited panelist for 	“Applied Narrative Studies: Narrative Theory in Practice,” International Society for the Study of 	Narrative, Miami FL (scheduled)
2024  	“LLMs and Machine-Learning Methods for the Study of Narrative Form,” International Society for the Study of Narrative, Newcastle UK
2023 	“Understanding Reader Processing of Character through Computational Modeling,” 
 	International Society for the Study of Narrative, Dallas TX 
2022 	“Deduction from Data: A Cognitive-Computational Analysis of Arthur Conan Doyle’s 
 	Sherlock Holmes Stories,” Society for Literature, Science and the Arts, Purdue University 
2022  	“Quantifying Reader Theory of Mind Use: A Computational Analysis of Behavior 
 	Descriptions in the Nineteenth-Century Novel,” International Society for the Study of 
 	Narrative, University of Chichester 
2021 	“Reverse Mental State Attribution and Patterns of Exteriority/Interiority in Dickens,”
 	European Narratology Network, Virtual 
2021 	“External Signs of Character-Consciousness in Jane Austen’s Pride and Prejudice,” 
 	International Society for the Study of Narrative, Virtual 
2019 	“Aesthetics and Social Exchange in Gaskell’s North and South,” North American 
 	Victorian Studies Association, Columbus OH 
2019 	“Narrative Imagination in Sympathetic Cognition: Reading Caleb Williams through Adam Smith,” North American Society for the Study of Romanticism, University of Illinois at Chicago 
 
Invited Talks 
 
2023 	“Why Characters Seem Real: Novel Reading and Social Cognition,” Holy Cross College Forum, 
 	11 April 2023 
Campus Talks 
2024	“Character Description Categorization with LLM Classifiers,” TRIADS Messy Data Working Group, Washington University in St. Louis
2023 	“Computational Methods for the Study of Reader Cognition,” Humanities Digital Workshop Reading Group, Washington University in St. Louis 
2022 	“Character in Dickens: When Internal Descriptions Produce External Images,” Seminar in 
 	Eighteenth- and Nineteenth-Century Studies, University of Notre Dame 
2021 	“Why Characters Seem Real,” Notre Dame Institute for Advanced Study Seminar 
 2021 	“Character Resilience in the Novel,” Guest Lecture, Psychology: Resilience in Contexts  of 
 	Chronic Conflict, Prof. Laura Miller-Graff 
2018 	“Narrative Iconography in the MCU,” Guest Lecture, Basics of Film and Television, Prof. 
 	Chris Becker 

Teaching Experience 
Instructor of Record: 
 
2024	Introduction to Text Analysis with Python (graduate training series), Fall 2024, Washington University in St. Louis
2024	Introduction to Python for Data Analysis and Machine Learning (graduate training series), Fall 2024, Washington University in St. Louis
2024 	Introduction to Python for Data Analysis and Machine Learning (graduate training series), Spring 2024, Washington University in St. Louis 
2024  	Introduction to the Digital Humanities, Washington University in St. Louis 
2021 	The Historical Novel, University of Notre Dame 
2020  	Writing and Rhetoric, Spring 2020, University of Notre Dame 
	•	Writing and Rhetoric, Fall 2019, University of Notre Dame 	 
 
Teaching Assistant: 
 
	•	Basics of Film and TV, Fall 2020, University of Notre Dame 
2019 	Narrative in Fiction and Film, Spring 2019, University of Notre Dame 
2018 	Basics of Film and TV, Fall 2018, University of Notre Dame 
 
Workshops Taught 
 
2024   ChatGPT in the Classroom, Washington University in St. Louis 
2024   	Machine Learning for Sentiment Analysis, Washington University in St. Louis

Professional Activities and Service 

2025	Panel Convenor, AI Narratology, International Society for the Study of Narrative conference, Miami FL, Apr 2-6 (planned)
2024	Convenor, Digital Humanities Working Group, Washington University in St. Louis
2024 	Conference Panel Moderator, Victorian Narratives Panel, International Society for the Study of Narrative, Newcastle UK
2024	Committee Member, AI and the Humanities Symposium, Washington University in St. Louis 
2022 	Graduate Student Assistant Director, University Writing Program, University of Notre Dame 
2021 	Founder and Organizing Committee Chair, Cyborg Series: Crossing the STEM/Humanities Boundary, University of Notre Dame 
2020 	Graduate Student Assistant, Seminar in Eighteenth and Nineteenth Century Studies, University of Notre Dame 
2020 	English Graduate Student Association, Student Mentor 
2020 	Conference Panel Moderator, John Ruskin: Prophet of the Anthropocene, University of Notre Dame, Feb 7-8 

Seminars and Workshops 
2022 	Digital Humanities at Oxford Summer School, Applied Data Analysis Workshop, Keble College Oxford, July 11-15 
2020 	Striving for Excellence in Teaching Certificate, Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning 
2018 	The Irish Seminar, 1600-1800:  Kingdom, Colony, Union, Empire, University of Notre Dame, Dublin and Kylemore Abbey, June 10-29 
2017 	The Irish Seminar, Ireland and Italy, University of Notre Dame, Rome, June 18 - July 1 

Language Skills 

Programming and Markup Languages:  Python, HTML/CSS 
Natural Languages: Irish (intermediate speaking and reading, basic written
 
Professional Memberships 

International Society for the Study of Narrative 
North American Victorian Studies Association 
Association for Computers and Humanities 
Society for Literature, Science and the Arts

References 
Yasmin Solomonescu, Notre Dame du Lac Associate Professor of English, University of Notre Dame.  		ysolomon@nd.edu 
 
Ted Underwood, Professor of English & Information Sciences, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign.  		tunder@illinois.edu 

Gabrielle Kirilloff, Assistant Professor of Digital Humanities, Washington University in St. Louis
gkirilloff@gmail.com
 
Matt Erlin, Professor of German Language and Literatures, Washington University in St. Louis, merlin@wustl.edu 
 
Elaine Auyoung, Associate Professor of English, University of Minnesota. 
 	eauyoung@umn.edu 
 
Meghan Sullivan, Wilsey Family Collegiate Professor of Philosophy, University of Notre Dame.  			sullivan.329@nd.edu 
 
	 
 






